# Fading Tech
~ 2022-09-25 21:11:14+00:00 ~

Since I recently have been exploring the world of Hi-Res audio, I have been searching out various albums on CD to start to rip. Piracy options aside, I began to notice something. CDs are getting harder to find. I mean, sure, you can still go out and find hundreds of CDs for sale in thrift stores, and there are still music stores around in some places which keep a decent supply handy, but their selection is lacking. Many of the albums I had on my mind were not to be found. Many hiphop artists were picked clean from the thrift stores, and their new albums only featured their latest releases. Unlike the rock and roll classic, blues, jazz, and classical music which has managed to keep at least the top 40 artists from throughout the decades relatively available, it was much of the same. The albums I could find were typically newer releases, compilations, or greatest hits, but not necessarily collections of albums themselves though I did see a couple.

I took a look online to see if it was any better and while I certainly could begin to find most of the albums I wanted, it was mostly on the second-hand side. There is always a little voice in the back of my head with Discs that are second hand - occasionally you get a dud - and everyone has experienced video or audio stuttering and it is always jarring and takes you out of your immersion. Worse yet - the disc may not even play.

I much prefer to buy stuff which is relatively like-new condition so that I can maximise the life-span of the product while I own it - and audio is no difference. When you can at least do the thrifting yourself you can inspect the quality and look for any scratches, and also take a look at other indiicators such as the quality of the case, the wear on the booklets, and whether anything appears neglected. Online, you have to depend on the quality of the pictures, the description, and the truthfulness of the seller themselves. Most people online are pretty good, but I have noticed that it is getting harder to say that. I avoid amazon for reasons I do not want to get into, but suffice to say that their marketplace is actually a great example of how a system can exploited to be no-longer very useful and some what predatory. Other places, with less gameable systems, are slightly better (albeit they all have trade-offs). I myself like to use ebay for a lot of hard-to-find things, and I always compare prices between amazon and them for a rough idea of how inflated the market is.

I find it a bit sad that the technology which was so prevalent is becoming harder and harder to find. I guess this just how things go, and much like video games which have become collectors items which while actively traded are still somewhat hard to come by in local shopping with a bit of luck on hand. I guess I took the CD for granted. I look forward to collecting some now before they become even more difficult to find, and building up a small collection of great albums so that I can throw them on when I feel like I want to escape from the hyper-connected world.

I feel like there are a classification of products which are not meant to be consumed quickly or in great quantity, but are instead to be savoured and enjoyed in both their process and their result. To me, video games, video, and music are many of those such things. I have no desire to sign up for accounts to play games, have servers shut down, get notifications from my movies, or be suggested the latest propaganda stream. I would much rather take the time to pick something to enjoy, prepare my ritual while it gets ready or I do, and then relax and enjoy it without the constant feeling that I could just swap screens, multi-task, or feel the need to check to see what I have missed in the last 5 minutes since the feed loaded. No, I would much rather just enjoy the experience of that particular chosen moment.

I feel like I am getting older and following the classic way of becoming more stubborn with change, blah blah blah...but I have always been stubborn, and if this is the way nature tends then why fight nature? I will gladly embrace my techno-retroism anyday over a blind techno-feudalism.