# War! What is it good for?
~ 2022-03-09-T20:10:10+00:00 ~

It is not surprising that I am making a post about the current Russia-Ukraine debacle - the 'war' that is currently underway. It should be noted that I am not too invested in this narrative and have little insight to provide other than it seems to be mostly a political clash between US Democrats and Neocons of the past 30 years and those the Russian post-soviet empire. 

Clinton is involved unsurprisingly which means its a con, so we just need to find where the money is flowing. Its either power, influence or money when the Clinton's touch something and it usually reaks of vile back-alley deals and scorched earth policies...but I digress.

Putin is no hero, and Zelensky certainly is nothing more than an act....but I truly worry that this 'war' is nothing more than an accelerated diversion from the Covid collapse, and the rest of that sorry state of affairs.

Perhaps that is the benefit this 'war' has provided. We now can forget about corona-circus and move onto the nuke-brigades...

---

I'll admit - the last decade has been a big eye opener in world politics, and we as a species have been so vastly affected by the changes in the past decade, it is hard to remember the world as it was. This is not hyperbole. We truly have changed so vastly in the last 10 years that I fail to see very much semblance of the previous period...Most things changed after 2008, much 2001 before that, but with the 2008 stuff it took a while for the pieces to fall into place. 2001 was somewhat similar in a way, in that it took until about 2005 for information to really settle into place and for the effects to reach their general conclusion. So perhaps 4 years is the magic number....2024...we will have a new political structure in place based on the fallout of the 2020 covid crisis and its fallout. We are moving into the second half of the performance and the action is ramping up.

We have most of Europe falling into turmoil, and America is losing its locus of control on the world stage. Biden is proving to be useless as expected, but I feel like the rest of the cabinet is even more mis-aligned than anticipated.

I expect Russia to continue to push, and to be quite successful in so far as pissing off the rest of the world and pushing forward with its annexation plans. I equally expect the US and Western Europe to heavily push on the sactions and continue to heighten the rhetoric. War is coming, but is hasn't yet started.

The war in the middle-east of the 1990's and 2000's and 2010's is continuing, but into new territory. Further east it pushes into the heart of Asia and through the Alps.... Khazakstan, Ukraine, China, Taiwan, Russia, Iran, India....

Lots of tensions are flairing, and new partnerships and pacts are likely to arise if they haven't already been devised. We are watching a new power form in the east. But is it one which aims to join forces, or are we watching the beginning of a new territorial competitive expansion amongst the newly developed world powers in a winner takes all grudge match? Only time will tell, but I can assure you. The spheres of influence are forever shifting, and they continue to shift towards a new dawn.

---

Will the west be forced to join in through antogonisation, provocation, allegiances, or purely for economical reasons? Or will we abstain, and aim to provide commercial support from afar but not directly engage? One thing is certain. There are lots of old powers who would love to have one last crack at the the title before they pass, and when they pass, a new set of batters will likely step up to the plates.

WAR! What is it good for?