# Spritz!
~ 2022-10-25 23:01:14+00:00 ~

I have been revisiting my game project which formed the basis of (peaceful.garden)[http://peaceful.garden] and decided that it needed some upgrades. First, it needed to be more portable and less compilation heavy. Originally, I had planned to make everything a type of class object to benefit from some of the OOP benefits of encapsulation and inheritance, but since I am using JavaScript, it is not exactly completely locked down and I cannot specify anything private which makes it a little less secure and a bit messy for my liking. Additionally, any small changes were requiring compilation even when it was something minor like an sprite modification.

To remedy this, I decided to focus on dynamically loading the assets rather than compiling them. This may have a bit of a performance hit in a couple of place, but I doubt it will prove too much of a concern as my engine is pretty lean and limited in scope. I started to transition the project to be more dynamic last week, and I have made some nice progress. The game now loads the map, tiles, sprites, audio from a zip package. This is very easy to edit and modify without requiring any additional compilations, and I haven't seen any performance issue thusfar.

I am also very happy with the reduction in bundle size. The game engine itself is rather small, but bundling in those assets through compilation was making my final bundle size rather large. This was impacting my load times and it was clear that it would be a pain for mobile users, so by opting to move most of the heavy assets to a zip, not only can I optimize the delivery of the zip which is compressed, but I can also cache it locally, and allow the user to copy it locally and not need to fetch it remotely each time. They can also edit it to their hearts content (which is part of the design of my system, so it is very much a benefit)

The next steps are to finish migrating the remaining assets (3D objects, fonts, trigger logic mostly) and then get the triggers tested and wrapped with appropriate catches to look for any possible configuration or user errors, and then it is off to the races.

I have decided that the name for my new platform games will be called Spritz' and will be short for Sprite Skits.

The possibility for mini-games definitely exists and as I added more scripting functionality, more and more game styles should become available, but for the initial iterations. I will be focusing on small skits, scenes, puzzles, and stories told in the form of sprites in 3D worlds.

I think there is a real chance that these Spritz take off and I am hoping I can craft a mini-homage the flash-games of old and RPGs I loved when I was a kid (and still do to this day) :)


Cheers!