# What is going on?
~ 2021-11-30-T20:10:10+00:00 ~

It is apparent to me, that the general population is under a mass pyschosis when it comes to the way it has handled this past 20 month pandemic. There is little doubt in my mind as to some of the avenue this has occured, the mechanisms which are continuing to be put in motion relentlessly, and some of the ways I think we may be able to avoid it and come out of the process relatively peacefully.

First let us identify the problem.

### The Problem

- We are currenly seeing increasing lockdowns, medical mandates, vaccine passports, restrictions on mobility, decreasing supply chain, increasing costs and a whole litany of stressors across the board. 

- There is a coordinated (albeit perhaps not intentionally so) effort to address all of these above mentioned issues with authority over open forum debate. Any mention of possible flaws in the authoritative statements is declared lunacy, fringe theory, and all manner of defamatory slander in order to tow the authoritative line - it is only when the authority changes is it now deemed to be admissable. This is not healthy.

- There is talk of quarantine camps in australia, curfews in europe, fines for unjabbed, and the rest of the apartheid system to be soon brought to a home city near you if you are to trust everything - which normally isn't the case, alas the past 20 mnonths have been ripped straight fronm the conspiracy forums like a cheap plagiarist. These things always have a zest when talkeed on the forums (extra oomphf) but when they eventually get implemented, it is usually rehashed into some horribly opaque and drap program name so as to not draw suspicion. Then it is brought into law and paraded like the gospel...its pretty annoying to be on the receiving end of these blowhards.

- I have met a few politicians in my time, and I must say - they don't know anything about much except what they did before becoming politicians - so whatever they spent time doing before they ran is their level of knowledge - beyond that they will be briefed, and have 'experts' and 'professionals' do the research and prep their talking points. From that point on then it is much like an upgraded sales person - they have tons to talk about, but it is all deal making, lobbying, and none of it is related to how they got elected - nothing really seems to make a difference. - Now - like all things, you do have some differences in people, so there are always going to be exceptions, but lets be real - they are exceptions.

- Bureaucracy is designed to screw with satisfaction in favour of control. Its not really about efficiency though parts can be efficient, its usually about control. Its about ensuring that the pieces all fit in to the boxes so that no accidental original thought may enter the arena. Its goes so far as to tell people how to package up stuff in ways which are so painfully tedius one must believe it has been designed specifically to make sure it isn't done.

- Content consumption from online, tv, mobile is all the source of most of our knowledge these days. Books are making less and less of an appearance, and this is combined with the prolifieration of bots on the internet such that it makes ensuring human-human only discussion on popular places almost impossible. This combined with ad traffic is a large contributer to the issues.

Given long enough there is a very good chance this will develop into various problems beyond the ongoing ones. When I consider the world, I am pretty sure, that this is one of the more negative scenarios we could have arrived at. A more locked down world, an additional 2/3rds of the population vaxxed, less freedom of mobility, more crime, higher prices, more inflation, less availability and resources, higher restrictions, taxes increases (for what exactly?? God only knows...certainly not anything meaningful), cardiac arrests on the rise, all manner of disgusting weird hate against people who haven't been jabbed, a complete disregard for any real doctors or researchers - they are always the same face and title on the end of the hook for everything. The resident tv doctors are the face of authority alongside politically appointed doctors....

We need to remember how we felt about things 24 months ago when we were blissfully indulging in our lives. Did our lifestyles really cause illness? Mine certainly didn't - though work stressors (regardless of location) will always, as will other life stressors. Speaking of life stressors.....they have introduced those a plenty. Soon enough there will likely be a big enough case to sue the government for mental and physical anguish, but then you have their horrible system to deal with to do it....The government is only your friend when they aren't your enemy. They will soon make themselves into an enemy of many people should they go ahead with such draconian measures. It doesn't bode well - I expect we will see a rioting much worse than previously, followed by a much stronger police presence. If there is diversion, it seems we are heading for the end of the tracks. 

So what do we do about it?

### The Solution?

At this time we need to first take a moment and just say we cannot stop this virus and must let it run its course much like a flu previously. We must realise that vaccine passports must be voluntary (and not the coercive kind we have now with fines, negative tests, etc) and must not be used for entry or restriction, abuse, or any sort of descriminination on the basis of its status - purely informational use such as medical records, hospitalizations, insurance, etc. Bodily autonomy must be affirmed.

I promote a type of philosophy of living - __volitionism__ - it is a type of broad philosphy which believes in the rule of law is built upon a foundation of natural law and a modified tort / contract law. There would be no legislative law - and contracts must be signed by both parties and duration of effect must be clearly acknowledged, alongside an escape clause for individuals in the situations of dealing with the state. The purpose for this is to ensure fair voluntary contract at all stages of government over the citizens. There is far too much opaque black tape, and stupid laws which no sane individual who isn't conning someone would support.

* Do only onto those that they do consent.

* Competition when fair is to be celebrated, competition when uneven is to admonished.

* Growth is both of the whole and the parts and both must be nourished.

* Another's time is not your demand, contract a fair bargain for their service.

* Be kind to each other, and show others kindess.

* Not all negotions must be deals. Sometimes to go separate ways is good.

* Creation is for the human mind to focus on, destruction is for time to dwell on.

Finally, we just need to find something cool immediately after that. Like reliving the 80's of some such trend. But it has to come AFTER, not before otherwise we will mesh the two into an even worse future (the one SSuckerberg wants)

Stand up. Don't say you want this. Realise the Apartheid that we are transitioning into.