# Hi-Fi Retro Vibes
~ 2022-09-22T19:11:10+00:00 ~

I have to say that while I was growing up I always kind of took music for granted, and left it up to my friends to suggest songs, playlists, and to provide a lot of the exposure to music for me. I was not one who was excited about concerts or actively followed musicians, and I have struggled for a large part of my life to remember band names, song tracks, and all sorts of things. I tend to have a few on-hand artists I can recall, and after that its a crap-shoot.

However, recently I started to get a feeling of nostalgia for the old days when I would grab my iPod and just head out and listen to music offline. I have really started rekindling my offline enjoyments, but without eschewing the modern conveniences we have built up. There are some people who are completely turned against technology and have thrown it aside in favour of more simplistic, traditional lifestyle. I can totally understand where they are coming from. Technology over the last couple of decades has rapidly gone from conveniences and novel experiences and new opportunities, to ever-increasing walled gardens of subscriptions, or as I think of them, IVs into your daily lives.

I myself do not fancy being hooked up to IVs all the day and becoming more and more dependent on these services. Especially as we have seen more and more of them begin to [change their ToS](https://www.androidpolice.com/google-legacy-free-g-suite-accounts-ded/), be found [violating privacy in favour of profits](https://www.aol.com/news/tiktok-settles-lawsuit-92-million-090514387.html), and no one can forget the good ol' [censorship](https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/twitter-permanently-bans-president-donald-trump-n1253588), and [political scandals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cambridge_Analytica). So to try and escape the future misery that is surely awaiting me if I do not reclaim some sense of sovereignty, I have begun over the past couple of years to try and find ways of becoming less and less dependent on the main technology platforms without losing some of the underlying tech.

In software this is relatively easy-enough if you have the domain experience as you can support the open source community and benefit from the great work being done by the various groups and individuals there. For other technology, it is not always so easy. You require manufacturing of the goods, and when the manufacturing agents start to become another IV themselves, you get into a problem. We now find ourselves on the dawning of a new age for the open source movement and it has been going on for sometime - that is the open hardware movement. Open source schematics, hardware models, and firmware are all steps in the right direction towards a better and more free future that can benefit everyone. These walled gardens are great in the short-term, but eventually (inevitably) they stop being so good and become a detriment to their ecosystem as a whole. Soon the very source of strength of the platform will become its weakness and you will see them begin to spiral downwards when they reach the end of their lifespan and try to take everyone who is there with them. These platforms begin to steadily move towards a habitual routine and will start to increasingly tweak things in subtle ways as to make ever harder to leave over time. That may be slowly reducing access to your data unless you increase your subscription, or perhaps by providing a slow and cumbersome exporting process. Many of these techniques do little to retain users except against their good graces and eventually the pain of insult is just too much to bear and it is out of shear self-respect that people will eventually jump ship - even if that means a messy transfer.

The secret IMHO to a sucessful long term business in technology is to not just lock people into subscriptions, but rather to foster a mutual self-interest where the consumers beg for the next release of features, updates, upgrades, etc and the companies provide them with a keen awareness of business fundamentals and honest dialogue. If the features cannot be done without some kind of back-handed deal with the devil, then perhaps just say so.

My most recent cord I am cutting ironically comes in the form of attaching a new cord. I have begun to revisit the MP3 player and I was happy to find that there are still some companies making them (otherwise known as Digital Audio Players or DAPs) which provide the oldschool offline enjoyment alongside many of the modern features we have come to expect. They support headphones, BT, and some even support WiFi streaming. They tend to have one or more onboard dedicated DAC chips which help to sythesise the audio signals and in many of the higher end units these are very well calibrated and offer exceptional audio quality. Since I am new to the space, I searched around and found a rather cheap unit and it is serving my purposes quite well. For about $250 alongside a pair of headphones I got for a couple hundred it is a lot more than a year subscription to Spotify, however, assuming that I do not break the hardware, I should have it last much longer than one year. Based on my previous iPod (which I do have somewhere still) - I expect to get 10-12 years of use from it, so when I factor in the price of spotify over that time, I do get some leeway. This leeway allows me to then support artists and purchase their albums directly and get the benefit of owning a copy of it in perpetuity as opposed to leasing it via subscription. I also get the tangible benefits of knowing that I am not being analysed and having my advertising data sold just cause I wanted to listen to some workout music.

Anyways, for those who have forgotten that such 'self-hosted' solutions still exist, I encourage you take a look and revisit some of the good things we have laying around our past just waiting for a fresh reboot.